Hi guys, in this tutorial I want to show
you how to connect Ollama with VS Code
and how to use this local models like uh
Gemma 4 with VS Code locally
uh using a plugin for free. Okay, let's
go.
Okay, first thing's first, go here to
Google Chrome
and go to this link and download the VS
Code.
After downloading the VS Code, you can
install it easily.
And go here to this Ollama website and
go right here to download. Click this
button. If you have Windows,
click this button to download Ollama
Linux or Mac OS.
Uh after that, we have to download the
and install the Gemma 4 uh model.
How to do that?
We have to go here to this link. I want
to set in the description
of this uh video in our channel how to
download locally Gemma 4 with Ollama.
After completing those steps,
we have
to run it right here
and open both of them. Open Ollama
like this.
And VS Code.
Uh now, I just go file next section.
Okay, mark all. Okay, don't we need
that?
Okay, we have to open a folder. Let's
create new folder right here. I name it
VS Code Simple.
Open the folder on desktop. Yes, and
select this folder.
Okay, trust the author. Yes, yes, I
trust the author.
And now,
this will come.
The next step is to go here to
extensions and search for this extension
to install a local model like Gemma 4.
Continue.
The first one, click right here.
Continue open source
AI code agent. Install this one.
Okay, trust publisher and install. Yes.
Now, it's installing.
Okay, fine. The installation is done.
After installing this, you can get this
this extension right here. Okay, how to
connect Ollama models with this continue
uh extension? Okay, before uh we are
going to I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I want to see you
uh the model running.
Okay.
Okay, once open open the command prompt,
as you can see, and
copy this command Ollama run Gemma 4.
Uh this is my uh
Okay, as you see, this is my model. It
works fine. For example, to test if I
want to say
hi.
And look.
Okay, fine.
Now, let's close this and connect it.
Okay, to connect it, we have to select
add chat model use local config. Okay,
let's go here to this local config. And
let's reload. And go here
to add chat model.
Uh for the chat model, we have open AI
Mr. For us is uh Ollama.
Select Ollama.
And the model is auto detected. It
connect.
Okay, as you can see,
uh this is my config. It works
successfully. This is is detected the
Gemma 4
local model. And I have other model is
called For us, we have to use this
uh Gemma 4.
Okay, you can use it like this. Ask
anything. Before you do that, we have to
go here and add some rules. Go here to
configure tools.
Uh screen with was small. Let's adjust
my screen.
Make it bigger. And this is my tools
page.
Okay, read file, make it automatic.
Create new file, make it make it
automatic.
Uh okay, if you please.
Read currently open file automatic.
Request rollers.
Great score. Automatic. It detects
existing file automatic. And finally,
single file and replace automatic.
Grep check automatic.
Okay. Now,
let's return right here and ask our
model. Okay, let's say I want to create
to-do list.
Okay.
And let's send it. And let's see.
Okay, it started working. This
index.html,
style.css, and
uh script.js. Now, it's continuing. It's
creating now the index.html.
Okay, this is my index.html.
This is my file.
Okay, continue creating uh the
style.css.
It's generating right now.
And let's close this. And let's close
this.
Make the screen bigger.
Okay, fine. It's finished uh creating
the style.css.
The body container
Now, it's creating our script.js.
Okay, fine.
It's generating now.
I think it's finished creating this.
Now, this is my three files. It
generated successfully. As you can see,
this index.html,
style.css.
Okay, and script.js.
Okay, I'm glad to basic structure of
HTML, adding tasks, completing. Okay,
let's see.
Let's return here to our VS
folder and let's see. Open the Chrome.
Okay, this is my
uh
website. Add new task, for example.
Hey.
I need it. Okay, it works fine, as you
can see.
Okay, let's return right here.
Okay, this is all for this tutorial.
See you later on the next tutorial.